Half-Year Report of the Nestlé Group 20211
Dear fellow shareholders,
Foreword
The Half-Year Report contains certain financial performance
measures not defined by IFRS, which are used by management
to assess the financial and operational performance of
the Group. It includes among others:
– Organic growth, Real internal growth and Pricing;
– Underlying Trading operating profit margin and Trading
operating profit margin;
– Net financial debt;
– Free cash flow; and
– Underlying earnings per share as reported and in
constant currency.
Management believes that these non‑IFRS financial
performance measures provide useful information regarding
the Group’s financial and operating performance.
The “Alternative Performance Measures” document
published under www.nestle.com/investors/publications
defines these non‑IFRS financial performance measures.
Introduction
We would like to thank the Nestlé team for their continued
commitment to meeting consumer needs and their relentless
focus on execution. Organic growth was strong across most
geographies and categories, with robust momentum in retail
sales and a return to growth in out‑of‑home channels. Through
fast‑paced innovation, strong brand support, increased
digitalization and stringent portfolio management we have
built the foundation for delivering consistent mid single‑digit
organic growth for years to come.
Nestlé continues to invest for future profitable growth.
We are creating a global leader in vitamins, minerals and
supplements with the acquisition of The Bountiful Company’s
core brands. The expansion of our partnership with Starbucks
into ready‑to‑drink coffee will open new opportunities in
a fast‑growing segment. Our portfolio choices, strong
execution and decisive actions on sustainability enable us
to create value for all stakeholders.
Group results
Group sales
Organic growth reached 8.1%, with RIG of 6.8%. Pricing
increased to 1.3%, reflecting input cost inflation.
Growth was broad‑based across most geographies.
Organic growth was 6.7% in developed markets, based
mostly on RIG. Organic growth in emerging markets was
10.0%, with strong RIG and positive pricing.
By product category, the largest contributor to organic
growth was coffee, fueled by strong demand for the three main
brands Nescafé, Nespresso and Starbucks. Starbucks products
posted 16.7% growth, with sales reaching CHF 1.4 billion
across 79 markets. Purina PetCare saw double‑digit growth
led by science‑based and premium brands Purina Pro Plan,
Purina ONE and Felix, as well as veterinary products. Prepared
dishes and cooking aids posted high single‑digit growth,
based on strong demand for Maggi and Stouffer’s. Vegetarian
and plant‑based food offerings continued to see strong
double‑digit growth, led by Garden Gourmet. Dairy reported
high single‑digit growth, led by fortified milks, coffee
creamers and ice cream. Confectionery recorded double‑
digit growth, supported by a strong sales development in
impulse products. Sales in Nestlé Health Science grew at
a double‑digit rate, reflecting strong demand for vitamins,
minerals and supplements and healthy‑aging products.
Infant Nutrition saw a sales decrease, impacted by lower
birth rates in the context of the pandemic. Water returned
to positive growth, led by international premium brands
S.Pellegrino and Perrier.
By channel, organic growth in retail sales was 7.3%,
moderating to a mid single‑digit rate in the second quarter
due to a high base of comparison in 2020. E‑commerce
sales grew by 19.2%, reaching 14.6% of total Group sales,
with strong momentum in most categories particularly
coffee, Purina PetCare and culinary. Organic growth in out‑
of‑home channels was 21.3%, helped by the easing of
movement restrictions in some geographies.
Net divestitures decreased sales by 3.1%, largely related
to the divestments of Nestlé Waters North America brands,
the Herta charcuterie business and the Yinlu peanut milk
and canned rice porridge businesses. Foreign exchange
reduced sales by 3.5%, reflecting the appreciation of the
Swiss franc versus most currencies. Total reported sales
increased by 1.5% to CHF 41.8 billion.
Letter to our shareholders
Half-Year Report of the Nestlé Group 20212
Share buyback program
In the first half, the Group repurchased CHF 3.1 billion
of Nestlé shares as part of the three‑year CHF 20 billion
share buyback program, which began in January 2020.
Net debt
Net debt increased to CHF 38.5 billion as at June 30, 2021,
compared to CHF 31.3 billion at December 31, 2020. The
increase reflected the dividend payment of CHF 7.7 billion
and share buybacks of CHF 3.1 billion, which more than
offset free cash flow generation and a net cash inflow from
divestitures and acquisitions.
Portfolio management
Nestlé is transforming its global water business, sharpening
its focus on international premium and mineral water brands
and healthy hydration products. On March 5, 2021, Nestlé
completed the acquisition of Essentia Water, a premium
functional water brand in the U.S. On March 31, 2021,
Nestlé completed the sale of its regional spring water
brands, purified water business and beverage delivery
service in the U.S. and Canada for USD 4.3 billion.
Nestlé Health Science continues to focus on building
a nutrition and health powerhouse. On April 30, 2021, Nestlé
entered into an agreement to acquire core brands of The
Bountiful Company for USD 5.75 billion. The Bountiful
Company is the number one pure‑play leader in the highly
attractive and growing global nutrition and supplement
category. The transaction is expected to close in August.
On July 1, 2021, Nestlé completed the acquisition of Nuun,
a leading company in the fast‑growing functional hydration
market. On July 1, 2021, Nestlé Health Science entered into
an agreement with Seres Therapeutics to jointly commercialize
SER‑109, an investigational oral microbiome therapeutic in
the U.S. and Canada. If approved, SER‑109 would become
the first‑ever FDA‑approved microbiome therapeutic.
Building on the successful global coffee alliance, Nestlé
continues to expand the reach of Starbucks branded coffee and
tea products outside Starbucks retail stores. On July 26, 2021,
Nestlé and Starbucks announced a new collaboration to
bring Starbucks ready‑to‑drink coffee beverages to select
markets across South‑East Asia, Oceania and Latin America.
Underlying Trading operating profit
Underlying trading operating profit increased by 1.3%
to CHF 7.3 billion. The underlying trading operating profit
margin was 17.4%, unchanged versus the prior year in
constant currency and on a reported basis.
Gross margin increased by 20 basis points to 48.8%.
Consumer‑facing marketing expenses * increased by 80 basis
points to above 2019 levels, following reduced in‑store
activation in 2020. Cost inflation also impacted margin
development in the second quarter. Operating leverage,
structural cost reductions, increased pricing and lower
COVID‑19‑related costs offset these increases.
Restructuring expenses and net other trading items
increased by CHF 78 million to CHF 264 million, reflecting
higher asset impairments. Trading operating profit increased
by 0.2% to CHF 7.0 billion. The trading operating profit margin
was 16.7%, a decrease of 20 basis points in constant
currency and on a reported basis.
Net financial expenses and Income tax
Net financial expenses decreased by 6.9% to CHF 416 million,
reflecting a lower cost of debt.
The Group reported tax rate decreased by 970 basis points
to 17.4%, as a result of one‑off items. The underlying tax rate
decreased by 120 basis points to 20.2%, mainly due to the
geographic and business mix.
Net profit and Earnings per share
Net profit grew by 1.1% to CHF 5.9 billion. Net profit margin
decreased by 10 basis points to 14.2%, as a result of one‑off
income related to divestitures in 2020.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 10.5% in
constant currency and increased by 8.3% on a reported
basis to CHF 2.17. The increase was mainly the result of
improved operating performance. Nestlé’s share buyback
program contributed 1.4% to the underlying earnings per
share increase, net of finance costs. Earnings per share
increased by 3.2% to CHF 2.12 on a reported basis.
Cash flow
Cash generated from operations was essentially unchanged
at CHF 5.8 billion. Free cash flow decreased from
CHF 3.3 billion to CHF 2.8 billion mainly due to a temporary
increase in capital expenditure to meet strong volume
demand, particularly for Purina PetCare and coffee.